README.md, before:

# Liccium Whitepaper

Introducing Liccium – a highly innovative, novel application that is deploying state-of-the art technology based on cryptographic premises to reinvent trust and transparency in the digital media space.



<figure><picture><source srcset=".gitbook/assets/Liccium horizontal-ffca80.png" media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)"><img src=".gitbook/assets/Liccium horizontal.png" alt=""></picture><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

### Verifiable declarations

With Liccium, content creators and rightsholders can digitally sign their original creative works and make publicly verifiable declarations of their original content. Verifiable declarations of original content create trust in claims, attribution and the authenticity of content.

Declarations of content-derived identifiers establish a persistent link between claims and the digital content without relying on watermarks or embedded metadata.

All declarations are automatically accessible via federated content registries, which allow users or machines to discover, identify, and verify the authenticity and integrity of digital media content and resolve rights, licenses, and other product metadata.

### Creator attribution

Utilising the Creator Credentials protocol, a framework for managing digital identities tailored to cultural and creative communities, ensures verifiable attribution of creators and rightsholders and promotes transparency and accountability.

### ISCC

Liccium is based on the International Standard Content Code (ISCC), a content-derived identifier, lightweight fingerprinting, and open identification system for digital media content of all media types (image, video, text, audio),  using cryptographic and similarity- preserving hashes to create a unique ID for each digital asset.&#x20;

In May 2024, ISCC was published by ISO as a global standard for digital content identification:

[ISO 24138:2024](https://www.iso.org/standard/77899.html)

Using a novel standard for the decentralised identification of content (ISCC), this information is inextricably linked to the content. This allows any user, system or machine with access to the digital asset to independently generate an identical or similar ISCC code that enables the identification, comparison and reconciliation of digital content while assessing its integrity and authenticity.&#x20;

Thus, ISCC remains dependable, retaining its full range of capabilities even in scenarios where content is altered or manipulated, or when watermarks, steganographic data, or metadata is removed from the media asset.

Commit message:

GITBOOK-156: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

README.md, after:

# Liccium Documentation

<figure><picture><source srcset=".gitbook/assets/Liccium horizontal-white.png" media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)"><img src=".gitbook/assets/Liccium horizontal.png" alt="" width="375"></picture><figcaption><p>Liccium Logo</p></figcaption></figure>

## The Invention of Trust for Digital Media

Introducing Liccium – a highly innovative, novel application that is deploying state-of-the art technology based on cryptographic premises to invent trust and transparency in the digital media space.

With Liccium, content creators and rightsholders can digitally sign their original creative works and make publicly verifiable declarations of their original content. Verifiable declarations of original content create trust in claims, attribution and the authenticity of content.

Soft-binding rights, metadata, and verifiable credentials to content-derived identifiers (ISCC fingerprints), Liccium establishes a persistent and verifiable link between claims and digital content without relying on watermarks or embedded metadata.

All declarations are automatically accessible via federated content registries, which allow users or machines to discover, identify, and verify the authenticity and integrity of digital media content and resolve rights, licenses, and other product metadata.

\


### Verifiable declarations

With Liccium, content creators and rightsholders can digitally sign their original creative works and make publicly verifiable declarations of their original content. Verifiable declarations of original content create trust in claims, attribution and the authenticity of content.

Declarations of content-derived identifiers establish a persistent link between claims and the digital content without relying on watermarks or embedded metadata.

All declarations are automatically accessible via federated content registries, which allow users or machines to discover, identify, and verify the authenticity and integrity of digital media content and resolve rights, licenses, and other product metadata.

### Creator attribution

Utilising the Creator Credentials protocol, a framework for managing digital identities tailored to cultural and creative communities, ensures verifiable attribution of creators and rightsholders and promotes transparency and accountability.

### ISCC

Liccium is based on the International Standard Content Code (ISCC), a content-derived identifier, lightweight fingerprinting, and open identification system for digital media content of all media types (image, video, text, audio),  using cryptographic and similarity- preserving hashes to create a unique ID for each digital asset.&#x20;

In May 2024, ISCC was published by ISO as a global standard for digital content identification:

[ISO 24138:2024](https://www.iso.org/standard/77899.html)

Using a novel standard for the decentralised identification of content (ISCC), this information is inextricably linked to the content. This allows any user, system or machine with access to the digital asset to independently generate an identical or similar ISCC code that enables the identification, comparison and reconciliation of digital content while assessing its integrity and authenticity.&#x20;

Thus, ISCC remains dependable, retaining its full range of capabilities even in scenarios where content is altered or manipulated, or when watermarks, steganographic data, or metadata is removed from the media asset.
