# Liccium search and verification engine

A major update in the next versions of the Liccium application will introduce new functionalities to enhance content discovery and verification. The Liccium search and verification engine will allow users to not only upload their digital media files but also search for similar media assets and metadata using ISCC codes or relevant keywords. By using the search and verification engine, users can explore digital media content, NFTs, metadata, rights, and licences, as well as credentials. Additionally, the engine will provide users with the ability to cryptographically verify declarations of metadata, rights, licences, and credentials.

The Liccium app method will help to proof authenticity and integrity of original content, claims to content and metadata, public keys, attribution, and identities, rights, metadata, and other information. It will thereby promote transparency and trust in the digital media ecosystem.

The Liccium index will be based on content declarations which are stored on decentralized public blockchain networks. Since not all ISCC codes will be declared, on-chain, the Liccium index will be supplemented by a database of Liccium’s own entries and metadata. This approach ensures that the Liccium search engine provides reliable and trustworthy results by relying on verifiable data sources. At the same time, scaling and increasing the number of entries will attract more users to the platform for content discovery. We believe that by combining the trust of decentralized blockchain networks with Liccium’s own database of reproducible entries, we can provide a unique and valuable service to users seeking to discover trustworthy content, as well as creators and rightsholders seeking to protect and promote their digital assets.
